# Exercise 2 - Render and test content projection in Storybook

Projected content in Angular allows you to dynamically inject content into a component's template. This can be useful for creating reusable components that can be adapted to different scenarios.
However, rendering projected content in Storybook for Angular components involves using a special approach that differs from the standard component rendering mechanism. This is because Storybook doesn't directly render Angular templates but instead uses a custom renderer to capture the component's behavior and structure.

## 0. Customize story type to accept extra properties

- Go to `libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts`
- Remove previous story type declaration and create a new StoryType, which consists of `TabGroup` and optional `ngContent` of `string`.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```diff

//libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts

-  type Story = StoryObj<TabsGroup>;
+  type StoryType = TabsGroup & { ngContent?: string };

```

</details>

## 1. Adjust meta type

- In `tabs.stories.ts` change meta type from `TabGroup` to `StoryType`.
- In meta args, add `ngContent` arg with default value of `''`.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```diff
// libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts

- } as Meta<TabsGroup>;
+ } as Meta<StoryType>;

args: {
  fullWidthTabs: false,
    activeIndex: 0,
+   ngContent: ''
},

```

</details>

## 3. Adjust Primary story type

Like in case of meta, change the Primary story type from `Story` to `StoryObj<StoryType>`.

```diff

// libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts

+ export const Primary: StoryObj<StoryType> = {
- export const Primary: Story = {

```

## 3. Add rendered template to your story

Now you can add ngContent to the props and use while rendering. 

Todo:

- In `libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts`, add new story of type `StoryObj<StoryType>` named `EmptyTabGroup`.
- In `render` function in `template` use `ngContent` value to project context provided in args addon.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```ts

// libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts

export const EmptyTabGroup: StoryObj<StoryType> = {
  name: 'Tabs group with ngContent',
  render: (args) => {
    const {ngContent, ...props} = args;
    return {
      props: args,
      template: `
      <ds-tab-group [activeIndex]="${args.activeIndex}">
        ${ngContent}
      </ds-tab-group>
    `,
    }
  }
};

```

</details>

Voilà! Now you can go to Storybook UI and in ngContent control provide any kind of content inside TabsGroup. 
You can start with the following and expand you options:

```html
<ds-tab title="Tab1">
</ds-tab>
```
