# Exercise 3 - Create smart component Stories

In this exercise, create documentation for `TabsGroup` component.

## 0. Check how autodocs work

- Go to `libs/ui/src/.storybook/main.ts`.
- Uncomment `autodocs: true` value.
- Re-run Storybook via `nx run ui:storybook`.
  You can now go to Storybook UI and check ho documentation looks like.
  You can see that we have two stories - Primary and EmptyTabGroup.

## 1. Create docs page manually

Todo:

- Go to `libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/`.
- Import all stories from `tabs.stories.ts` file as `TabsStories`.
- Create file named `tabs.component.mdx`.
- Add `Meta` block of `TabsStories`.
- Add `Canvas` block of `Primary` story.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```mdxjs
// libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.component.mdx

import * as TabsStories from './tabs.stories';
import {Canvas, Meta} from '@storybook/blocks';

<Meta of={TabsStories}/>

<Canvas of={TabsStories.Primary}/>

```

</details>

## 2. Learn re-usable stories pattern

In previous exercise block we have created a story called `EmptyTabGroup`, which can be very smartly used as a default template for different use cases of `TabsGroup`.
Let's create a new story that will re-use this template!

- In `libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts` create a new story called `TabsGroupWithButtons`.
- Call your new story `Tabs with button as content`.
- In newly-created story extend `EmptyTabGroup` story.
- In `args` provide a string template with two `ds-tab` components:
  - First `ds-tab` should have title `Active button` and as a content `ds-button` with label `Click me`.
  - Second `ds-tab` should have title `Disabled button` and as a content `ds-button` with label `You cannot click me` and disabled property set to true.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```ts
// libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts

export const TabsGroupWithButtons: StoryObj<StoryType> = {
  ...EmptyTabGroup,
  name: 'Tabs with button as content',
  args: {
    ngContent: `
        <ds-tab title="Active button">
            <ds-button label="Click me"></ds-button>
        </ds-tab>
        <ds-tab title="Disabled button">
            <ds-button label="You cannot click me" disabled="true"></ds-button>
        </ds-tab>
    `
  }
}

```

> [!KEEP IN MIND]
> Don't forget to import `Button` component in moduleMetadata:
> `decorators: [
moduleMetadata({
imports: [Tab, TabsGroup, TabContent, TabHeader, Button],
})]`

</details>

## 3. Add source to stories with complex creation options

`TabsGroupWithButtons` is a nice use case of content projection, which can be documented. If any fellow developer, who uses components from design system has to deal with component library, it would be good to have documented API and examples of how to build a more complex organism out of provided atoms.

- Go to `libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.component.mdx`.
- Add `Canvas` of `TabsGroupWithButtons`.
- Add `Source` block to add the code of template for the `ds-tab-group` component from `TabsGroupWithButtons` story.

```mdxjs
// libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.component.mdx

<Canvas of={TabsStories.TabsGroupWithButtons}/>
<Source
  language="html"
  dark={true}
  code={`
    <ds-tab-group>
      <ds-tab title="Active button">
        <ds-button label="Click me"></ds-button>
      </ds-tab>
      <ds-tab title="Disabled button">
        <ds-button label="You cannot click me" disabled="true"></ds-button>
      </ds-tab>
    </ds-tab-group>
 `}
/>
```

## 4. Use tags to filter stories

If you go to Storybook UI you may notice that there is a story called `EmptyTabGroup`.
If you want this story to act like a template for documentation only or, for any other reason, you want it to be hidden from the sidebar (navigation on the left), you can exclude it by adding a tag and filtering out stories of specific tag.

- Go to `libs/ui/.storybook/manager.ts`
- Uncomment piece of code related to sidebar.
-

<details>
<summary>Solution</summary>

```ts
addons.setConfig({
  sidebar: {
    filters: {
      patterns: (story) => {
        return !story?.tags?.includes('template');
      }
    }
  }
});
```

</details>

- In this file, change filtered value from `template` to `docs-template`.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```ts
addons.setConfig({
  sidebar: {
    filters: {
      patterns: (story) => {
        return !story?.tags?.includes('docs-template');
      }
    }
  }
});
```

</details>

- In `libs/ui/src/lib/final-tabs/tabs.stories.ts`, add tag to story `EmptyTabGroup`.

```diff
export const EmptyTabGroup: StoryObj<StoryType> = {
  name: 'Primary',
+  tags: ['docs-template'],
  render: (args) => {
    const {ngContent, ...props} = args;
    return {
      props: args,
      template: `
    <ds-tab-group [activeIndex]="${args.activeIndex}">
      ${ngContent}
    </ds-tab-group>
`,
    }
  }
};
```

If you run your Storybook UI now, you will not see the mentioned story in the sidebar. 
